All these volume studies, you can throw
all of them all of them in the trash
because they talk about going to failure
20 and 30 times per muscle group per
workout. And you guys have seen me put
up the chat GPT thing
that shows that people can only
go to momentary muscular failure
between one and three times per workout
session per muscle.
So, when somebody's like, "Oh, yeah, I'm
doing 20 sets to failure." They're not
doing anything. They're just screwing
around. And they're probably nowhere
near training to failure. Uh so, I mean,
they go and they throw some weights
around and you know, they probably sweat
a little bit, raise their body
temperature, but other than that
they did nothing. [music]
>> [music]
>> Hi, my name is John Jaquish. I want to
talk a little bit today about the
approaches to
strength and muscle development and a
little bit different because I I realize
frequently I get questions where people
are asking about research I'm citing and
most of the research I'm citing does not
involve variable resistance.
So, you got to run it through that
filter because what I'm promoting is
high-intensity approach with variable
resistance because that takes the risk
of injury down and guarantees you can
get a better stimulus. So, really
simplified way of explaining is variable
resistance is just an approach which
enables you to get the benefit of
high-intensity training without the
risks of high-intensity training.
Now, having said that, people say, "So,
if they're saying this about themselves,
they say, 'Hey, you know, like so if I'm
lifting straight weights and not using
variable resistance, would you still do
a high-intensity approach?'" No, I
wouldn't. And I know that that answer is
seemingly contradictory, but
the risks, especially a lot of people I
talk to, uh probably because of my age,
I'm 49. I typically
get a lot of people that are attracted
to the brand because I'm speaking about
it and they're they're over 30 and so
they're asking questions and I'm really
trying to get them
to first accept variable resistance as a
means of lowering injury risk. If you
get injured, you're not training at all.
So, that's huge. We want to avoid
injury. And I think as soon as I started
answering that in the in the X3 users
forum, so there's a a Facebook group
with 40,000 people in there talk about
their success with the product and these
guys were blown away that that was my
answer. But I mean, hey, I wouldn't lift
regular weights. I am only going to use
variable resistance and I'm not going to
change my position on that because I get
more upside and less risk.
Having said that, let's look at this
from either or. We're either talking
about weights or variable resistance,
but which approach? So, Mano Mano
Hanselmans came up with
summarized some some of the latest
research and I've been I've been talking
about this study for a while. High
tension is the only likely way to grow
muscle. So, that means it's really just
about you getting stronger. If you're
not getting stronger, you're not growing
anything. So, if you're counting your
sets, that means you're not counting
really how much output each set has,
which means you're not doing a whole
lot. And if you grow any muscle, it's
probably by accident. Like you may you
might have gone just a little too hard.
I also really want to emphasize all
these volume studies, you can throw all
of them all of them in the trash because
they talk about going to failure 20 and
30 times
per muscle group per workout. And you
guys have seen me put up the chat GPT
thing
that shows that people can only
go to momentary muscular failure
between one and three times per workout
session per muscle.
So, when somebody's like, "Oh, yeah, I'm
doing 20 sets to failure." They're not
doing anything. They're just screwing
around. And they're probably nowhere
near training to failure. Uh so, I mean,
they go and they throw some weights
around and you know, they probably sweat
a little bit, raise their body
temperature, but other than that
they did nothing. I hope that helps. I
hope that adds a little bit of clarity.
I hope that might have got the light
bulb to go off when it comes to like why
variable resistance cuz I think
sometimes people first stumble on either
Westside Barbell or or Jaquish
Biomedical and they think like, "Well,
yeah, I don't know I don't know if I'd
want to train with bands only." And my
my response is if you understood
how much force you can get to go through
a muscle, take it to fatigue in multiple
places
with one fresh muscle that's full of
glycogen in one set and the risk of
injury has is so greatly diminished.
It's not zero, but it's very low. And I
really think this is the path that will
bring you the furthest you can possibly
go. I hope this helps. Leave a comment.
Let me know what you think and we'll see
you on the next [music] one. If this
video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights,
>> [music]
>> we've got the answer for you.